Data Science | Pacific University
Secondary Academic Menu Links
Majors & Minors
How to Apply
Visit
Tuition & Scholarships
Paragraphs
Banner Image
Text Box
Data Science
Fast facts
Accreditation
NWCCU
Degree Type
Major
Major Credits
50
Location
Forest Grove
Format
In Person
Why Study Data Science?
Conquer big data and study a rapidly growing field that is transforming all sectors of society.
Prepare for a career in data science with hands-on coursework and
expert faculty
. As a data science major, you’ll have access to excellent facilities, including a computer lab with statistical and mathematical software. Students with a data science major will learn the foundations of data curation, mathematical analysis, computational thinking, statistical thinking, data modeling, communication and visualization, and understanding ethical implications.
Data science is an interdisciplinary, rapidly growing field, and its imprint is found everywhere. The data science major at Pacific prepares students to collect, analyze, model and present data, through coursework in mathematics, computer science, statistics, ethics, modeling, and communications. Capstone projects will give the students a chance to synthesize their coursework by delving into a research topic of their choice.
COURSE CATALOG
What Can You Do with a Data Science Degree?
Data science has critical applications across most industries, and data scientists are needed in almost every job sector including technology, finance, education and healthcare. In fact, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects jobs in data science will grow 36% by 2031, with a median annual salary of $100,910.
A data science degree can lead to careers as a data architect, data engineer, data scientist, analytics manager and statistician.
APPLY NOW
Title
Meet our Faculty
Ian Besse, PhD
Associate Professor
Michael Boardman, PhD
Professor, Department Chair
William Breslin, PhD
Associate Professor
Christine Guenther, PhD
Distinguished University Professor
Shereen Khoja, PhD
Professor
Chris Lane, MS
Assistant Professor
Nancy Ann Neudauer, PhD
Professor
Douglas J. Ryan
Professor
Chadd Williams, PhD
Associate Professor
Plan Your Visit
Register for a campus visit at Pacific University!
Each visit consists of an hour-long tour of campus led by a current student or admissions counselor.
SCHEDULE A VISIT!
Image
Title
Related Programs
Links to Programs
Mathematics
Bioinformatics
Computer Science
Request info
Request info
Apply now
Apply now
Request info
Request info
Apply now
Apply now