Social Work (BSW) | Pacific University
Secondary Academic Menu Links
Majors & Minors
How to Apply
Visit
Tuition & Scholarships
Paragraphs
Banner Image
Text Box
Bachelor of Social Work
Fast facts
Accreditation
CSWE
and
NWCCU
Degree Type
Major
Major Credits
49
Location
Forest Grove
Format
In Person
Why Study Social Work?
Develop the skills to make a difference for individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities.
The area of social work is as exciting as it is wide-ranging. Social workers work in schools, hospitals, state and county health services, child welfare service centers, sexual assault resource centers, or any number of local non-profit organizations. Pacific's bachelor of social work (BSW) program is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education and provides students with the opportunity to study social work with a focus on diversity, humility and social justice.
When you major in social work, you will work in small classes with
dedicated faculty
. At Pacific, you’ll gain hands-on, real-life experience through practice activities and tasks including:
Assessing what people need help with, such as housing, food, counseling services.
Working directly with individuals, families and or groups in any number of settings, sometimes in their home.
Case management, including arranging and coordinating multiple services to meet the specific person's complex needs.
Advocating for systemic change in our communities.
Developing and carrying out policies, programs or activities.
As a social work major, you can customize field experiences around your passions and learn in a welcoming and supportive environment. You’ll benefit from our partnerships with top-notch practicum sites in the Portland region, including the Department of Human Services, Washington County and local nonprofit organizations. Pacific's BSW program is part of the
Claire Argow Social Work Program
, along with the
Master of Social Work program
.
COURSE CATALOG
What Can You Do with a Bachelor of Social Work Degree?
A major in social work prepares Pacific graduates to pursue many different careers, from healthcare to government to research organizations. Many go on to attend graduate programs in social work (including
Pacific’s Master of Social Work
program), which is the next step towards becoming a licensed clinical social worker and practicing independently. Students who graduate with a bachelor of social work from Pacific may be eligible for an accelerated master’s program.
APPLY TODAY
Apply to the BSW Program
Pacific University undergraduate students must apply and be accepted to the BSW program to major in social work. Your application, following the completion of the prerequisite course, Social Work 201 — Principles of Social Work — will include an application, letter of reference, personal statement, and entrance interview.
Learn How to Apply
Social Work Experiences & Support
The Bachelor of Social Work program at Pacific University is part of the Claire Argow Social Work Program. Students majoring in social work can connect with local social service organizations and network with fellow social work majors through the Social Work Club. Students also are invited to join the
Pacific University Omicron Kappa Chapter of the Phi Alpha Honor Society
, where they help promote humanitarian goals and ideals.
Pacific juniors majoring in social work also are eligible for the Claire Argow Scholarship. Founded in honor of former Pacific University faculty member and prisoners rights advocate Claire Argow — for whom the program is named — the scholarhsip supports continuing students in earning their social work degree.
Boxer Stories
Teaser Image
Teaser Title
Graduates On The Gridiron: Wood, Pitre Make The Balance Work
Teaser Image
Teaser Title
Social Work Professor Nancy Murakami and Her Students Bring Hope to the Traumatized
Teaser Image
Teaser Title
Maria Vasquez-Rodriguez ’22, MSW '23 Intends to Help the Vulnerable Navigate the Health Care System
Title
Pacific Priority
Text Box
BSW to MSW Pathway
When you earn your bachelor of social work, you can fast-track your master's degree at Pacific! Students who hold a BSW are eligible for the one-year advanced standing MSW program at Pacific. The advanced standing MSW track allows students to take a "tune up" course, then jump right into the hands-on portions of the MSW program.
Learn More
Title
Meet our Faculty
Andrea Doerfler, MSSW, LCSW
MSW Program Director, Co-Chair Claire Argow Social Work Program, Associate Professor
Don Schweitzer, PhD, LMSW
Bachelor of Social Work Program Director
Michelle Pliske, DSW LCSW RPT-S™
Associate Professor
Accreditation
The Pacific University Bachelor of Social Work program is part of the Claire Argow Social Work Program. Pacific's BSW and MSW programs are both
accredited by
the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). Our
listing
in CSWE's directory is available online. Read
BSW Program Results of CSWE Competencies Assessments
.
Plan Your Visit
Register for a campus visit at Pacific University!
Each visit consists of an hour-long tour of campus led by a current student or admissions counselor.
SCHEDULE A VISIT!
Image
Title
Related Programs
Links to Programs
Social Work (MSW)
Disability Studies
Sociology
Public Health
Request info
Request info
Apply now
Apply now
Request info
Request info
Apply now
Apply now